The next element of the metaprogram that arises when the impression is formed is the reference, the focus on which a person focuses.
As for the reference, it can be of three types.
The first is the internal reference, that is, a person is interested in what he will do.
A person, as an active being, is interested in how it will affect him, what will be the relationship with him, what consequences he will get.
That is, the internal reference is me, the world is centered around me, and therefore, if you give me a proposal, I am not interested in its benefits for the Motherland, it is interested in the benefits specifically for me.
And I have to talk to you in this language because I came to sign a contract with you.
In addition to the internal, there are also external references. There are two types of external references.
The first type is the orientation to others.
That is, if I sign this contract, what will my partner think of me?
But if for some reason you came to me with this contract, not to my partner, and maybe you already came to him and, accordingly, they rejected your contract, and now you came to me,
here it is important, even not my desire, not my attitude, I want to understand how other people feel about what you offer.
In principle, a very interesting position, again, if you remember the saying that a fool learns from his mistakes, and a wise man learns from the mistakes of others.
This is the position of wisdom, and a person in the reference to others, he tries to be wise.
That is, of course, you will not offer me anything new, it's all already been.
Let me see how others reacted to this, what were their consequences, what were their approaches.
And after that, I will already think whether I need to sign a contract with you.
This is a very good position in terms of stabilization.
Perhaps.
But on the other hand, this position is very fraught and difficult from the point of view of business and risk.
Business is constant change, constant changes.
And if I wait until the market stabilizes, until any product stands, then I can not only lose my niche, I can just go bankrupt, because there are already brands.
Who are you? You are a new company, you just appear.
And so this orientation to others is an orientation of caution.
But caution, of course, should be within reasonable limits.
The best way is not to do anything, then you will not make a mistake in anything, then you do not need to do business.
The other side of the external reference is the context.
You come to me with any contract, and I have an understanding that today my business is flourishing,
that today the sales that I carry out, the products that I offer, the services that my company does are already at a good level.
Here you ask me something new.
How much does this fit into the context that exists?
How much does it fit into my reputation?
How much will my reputation contribute to the promotion of your offers on the market?
How much not?
In this case, this external reference is oriented to take into account all these circumstances.
Again, it is not enough that I want, it is not enough that my intuition tells me, from the point of view of the internal reference.
But the external circumstances are such.
The context is not favorable today in order to realize your offer.
And even if my intuition tells me that it would not interfere, but I am oriented to the context of the reference.
And so I do not like your offer.
In order to have the opportunity to sign any other contracts, to form any other impression,
it is necessary to understand what is referential, what is significant for this person, for my partner in negotiations.
And again, try to speak in his language.
If I see that a person is externally referential in context, let's talk about the context.
How will it fit into the context of the business that exists now?
If I see that a person is internally referential, let's talk about the internal references.
How much will it contribute to your growth on the market, to the growth of you as an entrepreneur?
How much will it testify to your ambitions, to your requests, to your predispositions?
Again, it will always be pleasant for a person to be spoken to in the accents that are understandable to him.
And these accents, in some way or another, will be in demand and mutual understanding will be achieved.
The next element concerning the metaprogram is related to time.
We have already discussed the issue of world classification, that one of the ways of classification is by time.
I allocate information on the time aspects, what I do, when I do.
But time is a very significant factor in our life, and therefore we all live in some time.
We are all late somewhere, we all don't have time for something, we all don't have enough time,
we all work 25 hours a day, we would like to work 26 hours a day.
This is a very important factor that is always missing.
Therefore, as for the time aspects, they are separated separately.
And when we talk about metaprograms about time, then here we need to identify at what time a person is oriented.
Someone is oriented to the past.
Ford did this, Bill Gates did that, IBM did that, and so on.
This person lives in the past, he lives in the achievements of the past.
He remembers all these achievements that were made, he remembers what mistakes were made.
If IBM was developing, then the problems with Apple, Apple Macintosh Company, are completely different.
And this is a person who needs, when you offer him an offer, to find an analogue in the past.
Here is the analogue thinking.
Yes, there was such a situation, and it was because Apple Macintosh Company refused to work on the market in this world, IBM bypassed them.
When you talk to a person about his usual orientation in time, and give him his favorite examples of the time frame,
then, of course, this person will listen to you.
Other people are oriented to the future.
What will I achieve if I implement these or other positions?
Not now, not in the past, what will my future be?
And when you come to him with a contract, where everything is calculated,
as regards the present situation of affairs,
what is proven, that this will not in any way worsen what is now,
he is interested.
And what will be in the future?
And you are not prepared to give this future picture.
You start to improvise, and so on.
And the negotiations, not that it goes into a deadlock, but the parties remain dissatisfied.
You brought me all the information.
Other people are oriented to the present.
The past is already there, the future is not there yet, and it is not known whether it will be there.
But the present is there.
You came to me, and, accordingly, your company, my company is interested in you,
your company is interested in cooperating with ours.
This is today.
And, accordingly, I do not need to build an air castle, which I will be in the future.
I need to talk about how good it was in the past.
What will change for me today, if I implement your contract?
This is the time orientation.
It often disappears, and, by the way, very often leads to a misunderstanding of people with each other.
Someone is talking about the future,
and the other is worried about the problems that are now following him, which he needs to solve.
Someone is worried about the current situation.
He is interested in the fact that today he needs to transfer a certain payment, but there is no money.
Yes, they may be tomorrow, but today I do not transfer.
Yes, they were yesterday, but today I do not have.
Therefore, the time orientation is such a painful thing.
24 hours a day.
We all live in the present.
Each of us has a future that we want, and there is a past,
in which there are both pleasant and unpleasant things.
Depending on what the person focuses on,
depending on what he distinguishes from these aspects,
this is a way of his accentuation of information.
And if a person is all the time immersed in past failures,
and you draw him future prospects,
he does not hear you, because he is all there.
If a person is immersed in all-time problems,
here is the tax, here is the wrong payment from the bank,
and you tell him about what you remember,
he is not interested, because he has problems now.
The time orientation is really very painful,
just because there are all-time problems that need to be solved,
and you take my time.
In principle, you need to understand these issues.
If you enter the same time orientation with a person,
then you are very close to getting contacts and interactions with him.
But in addition to the orientation of the past-present-future or the timeline,
there is also such an aspect as the duration of time.
People differ in their attitude to time.
Someone lives in time,
that is, he always knows how much time is now,
he always controls how much time he needs to get somewhere,
how much time is left to complete the annual report,
how much time should pass until you send me the necessary information.
This is a person who lives in so-called through time.
In the course of time, a person constantly controls the time he has.
This person is pedantic, scrupulous, punctual.
This is what is called the accuracy and politeness of kings.
For him, if you come to a contract,
we say that within a year we will get such results.
These are not words.
During the year, when?
December 31, January 1, October, when the financial year,
this is a person who needs a clear indication of time, up to the hours.
No matter how funny it sounds.
Very often profitable contracts are broken
precisely because I just ask you honestly,
tell me how many weeks, months, years will I get the result?
I need a number.
And you start saying that I don't think it will take a long time.
I'm not interested in these long names, long speeches,
which we will talk about a little later.
I'm interested in specifics.
There are other people who are involved in time
and in the sense that they do not notice it.
These are the people who say,
so, morning, well, good, we need to do something,
oh, it's already lunch, okay, let's continue,
oh, the worker is already finished,
well, nothing, we'll do it tomorrow.
These are people who, as they say,
do not observe happy hours,
but these are the people who cannot be put down.
These are not punctual people.
I'm not saying that a person will not do something,
that this person will not succeed.
But this is a person for whom time is the main perspective.
The main result can be for him.
And it doesn't matter when I achieve it.
Today or in 13 years.
The main thing is that I have achieved it.
And where was the time?
We still live, we haven't died yet.
If there is such a time,
no matter what, and a person who is punctual,
no matter how much,
these people will never agree.
The next element of the program is the so-called persuaders.
For each person, it is always desirable to repeat something,
to base something on something, to pay attention to something.
Each of us reacts differently to these repetitions.
In this regard, we can highlight several groups of persuaders,
repetitions that need to be done.
Persuaders can be based on intensity.
Someone needs to constantly, intensely, persistently indicate.
You have to do it because, because, because.
And the more you are persistent,
the more aggressive you will be to indicate,
the more intense you will be doing it,
the more a person will be convinced that,
if you insist so,
it means that you have already checked it,
and it means that you are really ready to get down to business
and are sure that the result will be.
This is, let's say, from the section
of impudence, the second part.
But if you are so sure that you are saying,
if you constantly demonstrate it,
well, okay, let's try.
But you understand that not everyone can be affected by this.
Usually, if a person, well, let's say,
is not very active, not very confident,
not very ambitious, then intensity affects him.
In fact, it's pressure.
I press you in order to get the result I need.
If a person is self-sufficient,
then this intensity can have a completely different effect.
Why are you pressing me, why are you not insisting?
Why are you teaching me?
And, accordingly, with such a person,
to speak to such kind of persuaders is an absolutely
correct way for the contract to be broken.
For other people,
the number of times of repetition is the persuader.
If you talk a lot about this contract,
if you bring recommendations,
what are recommendations?
There is one of the quantitative persuaders.
The more recommendations you bring,
the more it can be a sign that you can really be dealt with.
And, accordingly, you see how many companies
have interaction with your company,
and they are all more or less satisfied,
judging by the recommendations you gave me.
In this case, this number indicates that you are repeating.
But, again, as for persuaders,
I want to draw your attention to the fact
that you need to be very careful with them.
It is not for nothing that it is highlighted at the end of the program.
If you have caught the person's persuader incorrectly,
then your persistence can have a completely different
representation, a completely different attitude,
because it can be perceived against you.
The next killer is purity.
How often do you repeat?
You can say every word,
but my company has not let anyone down yet.
You can say this at the beginning and at the end.
You can say this once.
It is perceived differently.
If you are constantly cleaning,
it means that maybe something is wrong here.
If you are a company that does not need recommendations,
it means that the less you repeat about it,
the more it is an extra argument in your favor.
But, again, the situation here depends on
what kind of metaprogram is convincing for another person.
If, on the contrary, this person is convincing
and acts only on the purity of repetition,
then you really need to speak as often as possible.
If this person is considered convincing as intensity,
then here your purity will be an extra way
to influence the listener with a completely negative approach.
The next killer is period.
How often do you present evidence of what needs to be done?
In this case, it can be about
if you have given one argument,
another argument, after each of these arguments,
after completing a certain cycle of evidence
in the presentation of your contract,
you give arguments after you need to conclude the contract,
this is a certain periodicity.
It can be excessive, it can be insufficient.
It all depends on the person again.
What does he need?
In frequent, periodic reinforcements,
or in rare, but circumstantial,
how often do you need to reinforce your actions?
By giving all arguments and only after that
giving another confirmation of your right,
or by giving half of the arguments,
giving a preliminary confirmation,
and the other half, giving a subsequent confirmation.
And finally, another killer can be an interval.
How much time does it take
for you to repeat a certain piece of information?
If this interval is short enough for a person
and you see that the person starts to doubt,
to think, then increase this interval.
You need to be very careful with the killer,
probably as well as with time and motivation.
Because if you incorrectly record the killer,
then, accordingly, in this situation,
you will obviously lose the situation.
Very often, even when the analysis of the metaprogram is carried out,
the killer is not even mentioned as the most difficult to catch link,
because the killer does not come with experience.
And still, you need to be a really good master of negotiations,
a very good master of forming impressions
in order to catch on the convincers.
But if you caught on the convincers,
then your way of communication,
your way of managing the impression,
your way of forming the impression
will be 80% successful.
The convincer is a very strong thing,
but at the same time, it is very thin.
So, we have now considered seven main elements of the metaprogram,
analyzed different approaches in these elements.
Again, I draw your attention to the fact that this model, this scheme,
does not mean that there are people who only need to deal with the metaprogram by classification,
there are those who only need to deal with it by reference, there are those who need to deal with it by time.
We are all living beings,
and naturally, each of us has these leading elements in itself.
Each of us has its own way of working with information,
each of us has its own classification of the world,
each of us has its own style of organization of information,
its own leading representative systems,
each of us has its own focus of comparison,
its own motivation, its own reference,
each of us has its own time,
we are either included in it or live through time,
each of us has its own convincers.
For a person, some of these points in the metaprogram are dominant and significant.
When we communicate with a person,
when we collect information about our communication partners,
about those partners with whom we will interact and work with,
we need to try to highlight the metaprogram elements significant for them.
Because we can make a mistake somewhere,
we can make a mistake in the focus of comparison,
but we can be very correct and get into the style of organization of information
and deal with the leading representative systems.
We can make a mistake in the classification of the world,
but we can get into the winner very accurately.
If we really find ourselves able to fix a way of fixing his attention to information,
a way of influencing his impression,
a way of forming and managing the impression he will receive,
then we will have a great opportunity,
a great effort, a great possibility to achieve mutual understanding
and to form the impression we need and to get the result we need.
We get a good result both when we perceive, communicate and communicate.
We become what is called a pleasant interlocutor.
A pleasant interlocutor is the interlocutor whose opponent understands,
who speaks with him in the same language.
How can we apply these or other approaches?
Metaprogramming
So, we have talked about metaprogramming as a tool for creating impressions.
Naturally, now we will be interested in a practical question.
How can we manage these impressions?
How can we form the impression we need in a person?
How can we avoid giving up the formation of the wrong impression about another person?
One of the ways, as we have already mentioned, is to understand what metaprogramming is,
what we should focus our attention on, what we should pay attention to,
and how we can structure and present the information.
On the other hand, we have started talking about perception today.
We have already mentioned that perception is a way to get a holistic picture of what surrounds us.
When we talk about social perception based on psychological perception,
in this case we are talking about how we form an idea of social environment,
of people around us.
And here we need to return to the representative system.
And now we should return to where we started.
How do we form an impression?
Impressions about people are usually formed as a result of interaction with them.
And the language plays a big role here, the verbal communication, which we have already mentioned.
Of course, in addition to the language, there is also non-verbal communication, which we have already mentioned.
But, as we have agreed, we devote most of our time to verbal communication.
What is a language?
A language is a way of presenting our experience.
This is a very important element, because as research shows,
as the research of psychologists, linguists, and specialists in cognitive psychology shows,
a language arises from the designation of our direct sensations, our direct perception.
We have some pictures of perception that we recognize,
that we pay attention to, that we have in our memory,
and, accordingly, we compare them with what we know and what we do not know.
It is from all these psychological structures, images, that we create our inner sensory world.
This is our world, and usually we see our world, or hear, or feel,
depending on what representative system is leading for us, as we have already mentioned.
But a human being is a social being,
and therefore we need to convey our feelings, our perception to other people.
In the end, we need to interact with them, to get in touch with them,
to get the results that we are satisfied with.
In order to do this, as a result of evolution,
a cognitive formation was formed, like a language.
A human speech, which is based, of course, on the physiology of the language,
as well as on the vocal cords,
was created to designate the inner sensory experience.
I will repeat it again, because it is an important aspect.
A human being has no other sensations and perceptions,
except what has passed through our sensory organs.
Through what we have seen, heard, felt,
tasted, smelled, felt tactile, felt pain, felt pressure, and so on.
A human being is in the world around him, and this world is acting on him.
The stimuli of this world are acting on him.
These stimuli leave in the psyche of a human being some traces, some mental images.
A human being is a social being,
he has got an opportunity to exchange these mental images.
As for mental images, they are present in any mammal,
in any animal that has a developed brain.
A monkey also has visual images of the brain.
A monkey has visual images of the world.
A rat has visual images of the world.
A mouse has visual images of the world.
They have brains, they have vision,
and, accordingly, when I look at the world around me,
the corresponding images of this world remain in my head.
But as for rats, monkeys, mice, birds,
these are their images.
They exist in them, and they cannot transmit these images.
Here is the main difference between animals and humans.
Animals have visual images, they have vision.
They have auditory images, they have hearing.
And, in a kinesthetic way, the smell of the same dog
cannot be compared to the smell of a human being,
because for a dog, the smell is one of the ways of survival,
one of the ways of orientation.
But all these images in animals are their property.
And an animal, with all its will, cannot transmit them.
It cannot teach its offspring,
it cannot pass on to other animals from the same species,
simply because these are images that are represented in their psyche, in their brain.
A human being is the only one, as we know now,
there are, of course, disputes, but I don't think we will go into these disputes now,
a human being is the only living creature on Earth
that is able to transmit its visual images
using the language of verbal forms, concepts, and terms.
But the main thing here is that the language, speech, and concepts
arise on the basis of those images, those impressions
that a person has, that a person has developed.
This is the so-called process of encoding information.
A person has a certain image, I encode it in words,
I can't just encode the whole image,
and again, we understand perfectly well that there are a lot of colors and shades,
there are a huge number of different sounds,
different varieties of notes that a person can perceive,
we cannot pass it on.
Concepts are some kind of generalizations
with which we pass on certain actions.
Using concepts, I try to capture the images that I have,
and after that I speak in words and pass them on to another person.
Another person hears the word, and in order to understand
the content that is behind this word,
he must decode my word, that is, translate
this concept that he heard from me.
We perceive the world and can judge it
only based on our senses.
Accordingly, using language, I call a concept
my mental image, I pass this mental image on to another person,
and if another person wants to understand what I see,
what I feel, what I perceive,
he must decode my word in ways that are understandable to him.
So that his understanding is limited not by the form of words,
but by the experience, so that he experiences the same
that I said to him in words,
so that he can feel and communicate to my experience.
This is the function of language,
and all the verbalism is in the sense that I code my experiences
in words in order to pass them on to another person,
and he codes them in order to communicate to my experiences.
Naturally, when we talk about this,
there are always mistakes.
Mistakes in coding and decoding.
As for these mistakes, they were studied and studied
by representatives of cognitive science,
the same Grindr, the same Diels, Bateson,
and three basic ways of distorting information were identified.
I want to draw your attention to the fact that this distortion of information is not conscious,
I am not distorting it on purpose to hide something from you.
This distortion of information is simply due to the fact that I am trying to put my various experiences,
visual, auditory, kinesthetic, into words.
Again, it's an abstraction.
And then you try to fill this abstraction with living feelings again
in order to communicate to my experiences.
Here are distortions related to generalization,
distortions related to distortion, and information related to omission.
Generalization of information is an abstraction
when we say, for example, table.
And under this concept of a table we get desks,
and dining tables, and a table for meetings,
and, let's say, a table for a laptop,
a score, if it lies in front of the conductor.
This is all that falls under the category of a table.
One word, an abstract word,
but it encompasses a huge number of specific images.
If we say the word table,
we understand that it's a device
on which something can be placed.
But what kind of device is it?
What is it made of?
Iron, wooden, plastic,
folding, massive.
All this is what we didn't say.
Any word is a generalization
that hides a lot of nuances.
This is the essence of the language.
Language is a generalization
that helps us understand the general meaning of words
and try to convey to each other those or other words.
But any generalization, as you understand,
levels out the details.
Tables can be different.
The next element of information change
that occurs with decoding and decoding
is distortion of our experience.
As for distortion,
we can't formulate for ourselves
what we see, what we feel,
what we are guided by.
We pick up a generalized word,
pass it on, decode it,
and perceive it in our own way.
Some elements were lost,
some elements were added.
Let's recall constructivism,
what we talked about when talking about perception.
That's why we were considering the theory of perception
in order to make it clear
what difficulties arise when controlling the perception
and how to organize this control.
In addition to distortion of experience,
there is also omission of information.
We said the word table.
But, let's say,
we may have meant a table
with which Alexander Pushkin wrote his immortal works,
and so on.
And the other one, to whom we said it,
perceived it as a dinner table
with which he had his dinner today.
In fact, he perceived this word correctly.
Thus, omission, omission of information
that is big and significant for the person
who is transmitting it, was made.
He was talking about the Almighty,
and you are thinking about the dinner.
It makes no sense to say who is right and who is wrong.
When we talk about something,
we often see our own image.
And we think that we are transmitting this image.
The problem is that the word,
being abstract,
does not reflect nuances.
And another person, perceiving something,
the same word,
begins to give it its meaning,
its nuances that are significant for him.
Both are right, both understand what they are talking about.
But these nuances are omitted.
And the main thing is in these nuances.
Remember, we talked about metaprograms.
We talk about the same thing.
We talk about the same information.
But the way it is transmitted,
the way it is focused,
leads to the fact that
the same information can be used as a win-win situation,
or it can be used in such a way
that you lose all interest in further analysis,
further discussion, further consideration of the contract.
So, in order to clarify the communication
about the meaning of metaprograms,
the meaning of metaprograms is to clarify
the interaction that occurs between us.
So that you understand what I wanted to say,
and you put the meaning that I wanted to convey into my words.
There are different ways to do this,
which we will now consider.
And as for these methods,
they were developed by representatives of cognitive science,
by Grinder, Bates, and Diltz.
And, accordingly, their purpose,
their goal in these instruments,
which we will now talk about,
is to try to get rid of all the difficulties
that arise when generalizing information,
when omitting information, and when distorting it.
What difficulties usually arise
when the correct understanding
of what is being said to a person is distorted?
Because, again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact
that difficulties in perception,
difficulties in forming perceptions arise
not only because I consciously want to mislead you,
they arise in the case when I sincerely want you to understand me,
to understand exactly what I want to convey to you.
The problem is that
in their speech people often use
non-specific nouns of noun and place of origin.
For example, as is usually our favorite saying,
that sellers are obsessive,
goods are of poor quality,
companies deceive their buyers,
and this is the norm of business.
Again, look, there is a certain statement,
it is procedural, as we already know from the point of view of classification,
but here non-specific nouns of noun are used.
Accordingly, let's assume that we have come to sign a contract with a person
and he gives us this kind of statement.
After all, any non-specific statement is correct
in some aspects, in some places, in some circumstances.
Accordingly, our task is to strengthen the understanding with a person
and avoid the fears that he wants to say
and create the right impression of him.
In this regard, we must,
in terms of forming impressions,
ask clarifying questions.
If we come across non-specific nouns of noun and place of origin,
then the goal of the questions is to restore the lost information,
to clarify the experience.
After all, in fact, if a person says this,
then, accordingly, he had some experience
when both sellers were obsessive,
and goods were of poor quality,
and, accordingly, the company wanted to deceive the buyers.
But he does not want to present this directly as a victim of circumstances.
And he says that it happens.
And when he says this, you will not look at him, it really happens.
In this regard, we must ask questions to clarify
who exactly, what exactly,
what specific circumstances concern him.
At the same time, it should be noted that there are two approaches.
We use non-specific nouns of noun
to designate people, places, things.
Remember the metaprogram and information classification.
So, if we do not want to say specifically what kind of people,
in what place, what kind of goods, what kind of thing,
we use non-specific nouns.
It is not specific.
I do not seem to offend you,
but on the other hand, I express my concerns.
So, in order to specify the appropriate circumstances,
we need to ask a clarifying question.
Here is the statement.
Sellers are obsessive.
Let's ask what kind of sellers they are.
Maybe a person has experience in communicating with the sellers of a jewelry store.
And we came to sell cars.
As for cars, he bought his jeep and is very satisfied
because the sellers told him everything he wanted
and sold him the things he really needed.
In this situation, it is necessary to point out to a person
that he is doing the wrong generalization.
And if he makes a conversation with you,
it means that he sees you as the same person as someone from his past experience.
The statement, your goods are of poor quality.
You can ask what exactly the goods are.
Maybe we are really talking about computers.
You had a sad experience five years ago,
working with a computer company that put Chinese computers
under the mask of Hewlett Packard computers.
They naturally broke down, and you were at a loss.
But we must clarify again what an unpleasant experience
a person has with events.
In order to reveal the situation and say that we supply those computers,
here are the documents, certificates, licenses.
And, accordingly, to dispel suspicions that he will again attack these robberies,
which again attacked five years ago.
Many companies deceive buyers.
Again, you can ask, who is being deceived?
What buyers?
And, accordingly, again, what is the experience related to?
If this is where the distrust of my company is hidden,
let's figure out what data is not interesting in the company,
what balance should be given in order to dispel the fears that a person has.
This is what concerns the classification of people, places and things,
and, accordingly, clarifying questions that can be asked here.
This is all that you see on the first part of the slide.
But as for the specific names of nouns and nouns,
there is another very interesting feature of the Russian language,
which is nominalization.
Nominalization is a philological term that means
the use of a word with a processual meaning as a noun
when the processuality disappears.
The process is a verb, we have already talked about this.
The noun is a noun, the noun is a result.
Naturally, there is no processual connection between the verb action and the noun.
Nevertheless, if a word has a nominal meaning,
then there is some fear about the processuality of events.
There is a standard test to determine whether this part of the speech is nominalization or not.
This test is philological, again.
That is, you need to ask the question, can this be put into a wheelbarrow?
For example, trust, well-being, reliability, abstractness.
Naturally, this is a general concept that cannot be put into a wheelbarrow.
You can put bricks, houses, trunks, walls into a wheelbarrow.
But abstract concepts like trust, tenderness, quality cannot be put into a wheelbarrow.
Accordingly, if you have encountered nominalization,
then you need to understand what process is hidden under it.
Because the nominal noun cannot be touched, heard, seen.
We cannot pass the nominal noun through our representative systems.
This is very important, which we are already talking about.
In order to decode a word, we must relate it to our sensory experience.
Nominalization is a verb-noun.
Naturally, it is not sensory, it is a certain action.
It is not something that passes through our sensory organs.
We cannot relate it to our perception, to our sensory experience.
Therefore, we need to put this nominalization into action,
or clarify what is meant.
As for clarifying questions, usually there are questions.
Where, when, how, what do you mean?
The goal of the question is to transform a significant phenomenon
back into a process, into a verb, into an action.
Everything we talked about in the classification of information in the world.
What can be brought as an example?
For example, we are not sure about the quality of your products.
Nominalization is about quality.
I cannot smell quality, touch it, and so on.
We clarify how you want to believe in this.
What is the quality expressed in?
Thus, we give a person the opportunity to translate his suspicions,
his difficulties from nominalization into our sensory sensations.
Smell, taste, mass, packaging, size.
That is, specific actions that we can discuss.
We left the abstraction of quality.
It can be the quality of the purchase, the quality of the sale, the quality of the service.
And now we get the specifics.
The specifics are what is discussed, what is agreed upon, what is agreed upon.
Again, the argument is the strength tested by eternity.
What is eternity?
Again, this is a kind of nominalization, you cannot put it into action.
And we can clarify in what conditions this strength is tested.
In relation to what?
For how long?
None of us lives forever.
For some, eternity is a guaranteed repair for three years.
For some, eternity is a guaranteed repair for two months.
What exactly worries you?
The fact that we do not specify a specific time?
Let's discuss this.
The fact that you once faced circumstances that guaranteed you eternity,
and everything broke the next day.
Let's clarify what worries you and discuss it.
We will leave the nominalization and again consider what we specifically get.
We return to the specifics.
Well, again, our relations are full of trust or our relations are safe.
What does it mean to be full of trust?
What is trust?
What is safety?
What do you mean by this?
What are you, as an opponent, worried about?
Who do you trust?
Who trusts you?
What do you trust?
Let's clarify the nominalization.
Let's go back from the substantive to the process.
This is how the work and formation of changes in the correct perception takes place,
when we use specific names of the substantive places of ownership.
Both the classification of things by people and places of ownership,
and the work with nominalizations.
Please note that the nominalization is used very often, especially in the speech of politicians.
When it is said that the welfare of the people is getting better,
people, children, and so on.
What is better?
How to increase it?
To whom to increase it?
The people are also a stretch.
And, accordingly, when this nominalization begins to be implemented,
the political actors are influenced and look pretty pale.
But, as they say, politics is politics.
We are interested in our commercial issues, commercial proposals.
And, accordingly, now we know how to achieve mutual understanding
in the case when a person uses specific names of the substantive places of ownership.
But this is only the first part of the question,
because there are other approaches besides this.
For example, the use of specific verbs.
Specific verbs are also a very widespread way of distorting information.
But we all know the remarkable feature of Russia,
this Crimean people steal.
This is already, as they say, used for the second century.
Everyone uses it, but it is not a specific verb.
Who steals?
What is stolen?
Where is stolen?
Who is stolen?
And what does it have to do with the fact that in Russia
someone has the contract that you propose to me to conclude?
When a specific verb is used, it must also be concretized and simplified.
In this case, the goal of the question will be to determine
the complex equivalence of behavior or process.
What is meant by this specificness?
What process?
What is the duration?
What are the circumstances?
And the most natural question we should ask in this situation is
how exactly?
How exactly are they stealing?
How exactly are they calculating?
Where are they writing?
Where are they washing?
And so on.
As for verbs,
verbs are usually actions,
which we have already discussed.
Moreover, the details of the action itself can vary.
Along with this, the behavior that this action indicates also varies.
And the main thing is implied.
I use a specific verb.
I mean only circumstances.
I mean my sad experience.
I mean the descriptions that your company gives to my security services
or those whom I trust who have already worked with you.
And here, accordingly, it is necessary to clarify
what is meant by this verb.
For example,
there is a common statement that arises in the field of activity
of a specialist in the field of human resources of HR,
who cannot understand why his employees are constantly being fired.
My employees rely on me.
They rely.
This is a completely negative verb.
Let's start.
What do they rely on?
They rely on the fact that you will fire them.
This is undisputable.
You have this result.
They rely on the fact that you will promote them.
These are questions, otherwise they would not be fired.
What exactly do they rely on?
When do they rely on?
These clarifications are necessary.
And when a person is asked these clarifying questions,
he will simply understand that in fact
using a specific verb,
he either really has no information
or hides unpleasant facts from himself.
This project will lead our company forward.
Where exactly will it lead?
Maybe it will lead forward in the number of bankruptcies.
A wonderful project.
Maybe it will lead forward in the number of those
who are interested in the tax inspection.
Also a good project.
It will lead forward in the segmentation of the market sector.
A completely different situation.
Let's clarify.
How exactly will it lead?
Where? What do you mean?
You see, when we talk about the impression that needs to be controlled,
it is always related to the fact that we want to clarify,
we want to learn the specifics,
which are hidden behind any other, non-specific verb.
They steal in Russia, everyone knows this,
but nevertheless we live here, lived here and will live here.
And we will steal too.
I know what you think.
Very often the statement,
when the boss reports to some subordinate,
and says, I know what you think, I know what you do.
How does he know?
This is called reading thoughts.
In fact, it is a very dangerous situation,
which we often have to face.
Someone said something,
and I formed a certain opinion,
according to my perception.
Do you remember what we talked about at the very beginning?
And now my first opinion is very difficult to change.
And accordingly I say, I know what you think,
although a person may not have this in his mind at all.
Many of us have been in such a situation,
and here is a rather slippery situation.
Therefore, it may be just a question,
how do you know this?
Who told you?
What are you based on?
That is, to try to develop this non-specificity.
After all, a person perfectly understands,
I know what you think.
List what I think.
And accordingly, here arises the situation,
that either we do not understand,
or you think quite differently,
than I mean.
Very often it happens,
especially when relationships begin to clear up.
Again, a non-specific verb,
which can have very serious consequences.
Or I know everything you know.
In the end.
Well, again, we often meet the statement,
that the buyers are upset with me.
What upset you?
The fact that they buy little,
the fact that they want to pay a lot of money for the product.
What do they do to upset you?
In the end, what did the buyers not please you with?
The fact is that if we use common words,
if we use common expressions,
then often there is a situation,
that we mean one thing,
and for ourselves we mean a certain specificity,
and a person thinks about something completely different.
This is what concerns the non-specific verbs.
Very often, the verb is constantly used in business.
It, again, has a very important meaning.
If I do not want to give an exact answer,
if I do not want to say something specific,
if I give a general phrase,
I will think about your proposal,
I will brainstorm, we will meet, and so on.
This, on the one hand, is a way to leave an immediate answer.
On the other hand,
it can be a way of misunderstanding the proposal that is given to you.
Therefore, in this case, there is a need for clarification
about what is being discussed.
In addition to the non-specific nouns,
in addition to the non-specific verbs,
the Russian language, which has a lot of parts of speech,
which is a very developed language
in terms of the number of different philological elements and turns,
has the so-called modal operator of impossibility and necessity.
The modal operator is a kind of statement
about what can be done, what cannot be done,
how much it is necessary to do.
And as for the modal operators,
they are somehow connected with the boundaries of experience
that every person has.
Again, let's remember what we said
about perception at the beginning of our meeting.
We are based on the experience that we have.
And, accordingly, all our views,
which in this case occur,
are connected with our knowledge, our experience.
If our experience is limited,
then, accordingly, it is necessary to expand this experience in one way or another,
or to clarify what our experience does not coincide with your actions,
with your approaches.
That's why modal operators are used,
which are connected with the situation of the possibility to do something.
When we face such operators as
I can't, I must, I have to,
then our task is to clarify,
to find out for ourselves
how limited is the sensory experience that I have,
and how I can help my interlocutor, my opponent,
to go beyond this experience
to form the impression he needs for me,
so that his impression does not coincide with what I want.
In this situation, we can go in two ways.
The first way is to clarify the information that our interlocutor has,
to understand what needs to be added,
or what negative aspects of this information prevent the interlocutor from making a decision in our favor.
Or, and this is the simplest way,
or the second way is more complicated,
because it requires art,
it requires a certain skill,
to get access to the information we want.
Naturally, our interlocutor will not tell us what he is afraid of,
who he talked to about our company,
and what negative impressions he was told.
This is his information.
We need to understand what failures occurred in this situation,
what circumstances occurred.
Accordingly, we must ask clarifying questions.
Simple.
What is stopping you?
What is making you anxious?
What will happen if you do this?
And what will happen if you could not do this?
And, in the end, the good old question.
Who told you this?
What are you based on?
Where did you get this information?
What is the reason for your doubts?
Modality,
I can't,
perfection,
duty,
it always implies some limitation,
which is imposed on behavior.
It can be a limitation of ignorance,
it can be a limitation of my negative experience,
which follows me like a train,
it can be a limitation of the fact that I have some warnings,
some attachment to a person, to a company,
to the actions that are offered to me.
And, accordingly, when I ask clarifying questions,
when I try to find out what is behind this modality,
where are these limiting statements,
what does not allow you to form a positive impression about my company,
about my offer,
about the ideas that I make for you,
then, accordingly, these clarifications give me an opportunity
to perform the necessary actions,
to change, to clarify the offer that is offered to me.
Well, for example,
let's take a statement, which, again, can be often encountered,
that we cannot refuse to work with the previous provider,
and it is not profitable to work with several.
Again, you make some offer,
you have already formed a company,
and very often such an argument can be made.
Then you can ask the following question,
what exactly is preventing you?
Who said that you cannot work with another provider?
And what will happen if you refuse to work with us?
What will happen if you refuse to work with the providers
who you are working with now?
Are you satisfied with everything?
Has he ever let you down?
We ask questions and try to find the ground,
the ground for conversation, the ground for mutual understanding,
the ground for the conversation to continue,
because if we are told that we cannot work,
then the conversation ends on its own.
Now we are trying to find the common points of contact,
because these points of contact will allow us to further develop the topic,
to master the metaprograms, to master this or that information,
to work with specific verbs and statements.
Model operators are used quite often,
and in fact they are a reflection of the experience I had,
the experience I had, the experience I worked with, the experience I am based on.
Our task is to shake up this negative sensory experience
that I got through my sensory organs,
maybe I got some bumps on it,
but it was, and it was not with me.
Now the situation has changed.
Let's do some actions that will allow you to dispel the difficulties that arise in me.
The question of majority often arises with children, with parents,
with employees.
As for HR, it is very often said here,
you must come to work on time,
you must work until you do everything.
Who am I supposed to work with? Who said that?
What will happen if I don't do it?
Very often these problems, these model operators lead to conflicts,
they form an authoritarian impression
that has no effect on the image, brand, reputation of the company.
You have to work with them,
because in fact they are very easily shaken up and very easily changed.
But this is not all that can be faced from the point of view of the verbality of the formation of the correct impression.
The next verbal characteristic that very often contributes to the formation of an inadequate impression
is the use of the universal quantitative.
Many, all, never, always, the slogan from the 12th studio.
Universal quantitative is just a quantity that has no clear values.
Accordingly, when we try to clarify,
we must ask a question about how to concretize the above statement.
Universal quantitative is always a super-comprehension.
We generalize everything in one way or another.
In this regard, what can we do?
For example, to repeat the same universal quantitative that you gave me in a questionable form.
Well, in the traditional statement, especially for women,
all men are greedy.
Indeed, here is a very important question.
Indeed, all your husbands are greedy, your boss is greedy.
Every man who was greedy at the beginning of his life, your parents were greedy.
There is, of course, a certain subtlety,
because you can get to such an example that confirms once again.
But again, in this situation, you do not need to touch on significant examples,
but you need to take something neutral.
For example, you cannot remember a single man who was generous.
Santa Claus can always be remembered.
Of course, he is generous, he has his own generosity.
What exactly are men greedy?
What do you understand by the greed of a man?
Look, there is a universal quantitative,
all men with the same success can be called women.
I would like to ask the same question.
All, all, all, really?
So that a person thinks,
does it really make sense for him to make this statement now,
if you say that your boss is a man,
and you are discussing with him the issue of raising your salary?
Another way is to thicken the paints even more.
For example, no one knows the drug Propylex.
No one knows at all.
If no one knew Propylex, how would he take any other thing on the market?
Who exactly does not know anything about Propylex?
And the same person will think,
so, will I not expose myself in a bad light,
if I say that no one knows about it,
or maybe only I do not know about it?
Another way is to get an exceptional example from the interlocutor.
Again, the examples we talked about were there.
And again, the next thing is to clarify the experience of the interlocutor.
What is the connection of this statement?
Maybe you have met only such men?
Maybe your experience is limited only by them?
Maybe you have based only on your experience,
or this experience of someone else?
The task is to work with universal quantities,
but I emphasize it again, carefully,
because it is not worth asking provocative questions here,
just because maybe the status is not the same.
You came to negotiations,
you wanted to learn the contract,
why should you aggravate the situation?
Translate the conversation into a neutral topic.
So, as for the universal quantities,
then, accordingly, all this is a kind of generalization.
With the help of our sensory senses,
vision, hearing, kinesthetics,
we never have a relationship with the universal quantities.
We have no relationship with the whole world.
We have a relationship with a specific room where we are,
with a specific place where we sit.
The next element that prevents the formation of an adequate impression
is the use of comparisons.
And very often, comparisons with silence,
when there is no comparison standard.
In this situation,
a certain comparison is simply used,
but it is omitted, what is compared with.
For example, things are going well,
we do not need to sign a contract with you.
What is it, things are going well?
It is not clear what is being compared with.
Things are going well compared to what?
To your previous business,
to your business with other suppliers,
to the business that occurs in my personal life.
What am I comparing with?
I need to identify this standard.
Because comparison is pointless.
I always compare certain circumstances that occur to me
and strive to deal with these circumstances.
I will get too little profit from your contract.
What is too little profit?
Let's say,
too little profit of 1%
means an additional profit of 1.5 million dollars.
1.5 million dollars is not a significant profit for you.
We work with different numbers.
And accordingly, I do not understand what you are comparing with.
Well, if 1.5 million is not a significant profit for you,
it is clear.
But if it is about 1%, what is 1% worth?
We clarify, and then we already
start to get to the specifics of the relative comparison.
And accordingly, 1% is not enough.
Okay, 2%, 3 million dollars.
This is a sufficient amount.
We find common figures from which we can start.
If 1.5 million is not money for you,
it is money for me.
Let's clarify what you benefit from us and what we benefit from you.
Again, our goal when we work on impressions is to bring the general point of view.
Our profit is higher than you offer.
Higher than what?
Higher than what is your profit and when is it higher?
Now? And what will happen tomorrow?
How can the profit change if we use one or another contract?
Let's say so.
Or another statement that this company is more generous to dividends than you are.
More generous to dividends.
What is it more generous to dividends?
Then what profit does this company promise?
Dividends from what?
From 1.5 million to 500 thousand.
Again, we are trying to avoid the lack of specifics,
avoid misunderstanding the situation
and to move on to the specific figures that we can discuss.
This is what concerns the impressions that arise with social perception,
with social interaction,
which very often arise during the negotiating processes that we conduct.
Naturally, in this case, the main problem is that we have to verbally clarify what is meant.
It is pointless to give a lot of arguments to dispel all your doubts.
All doubts will not be dispelled.
All, in the end, is also a universal quantity.
But if I know exactly what I want to figure out,
what you doubt,
then we can talk specifically.
And if we talk specifically, then we already speak a specific language,
and then we can vary the figures,
vary the agreements.
We can form an impression that both parties want
and, accordingly, get the desired data,
conclude a particular contract.
This is what concerns the issue of forming impressions,
what concerns working with language, with clarification,
and with the fulfillment of information lost by generalization,
exclusion and omission.
I want to draw your attention to the fact that perception is the initial stage of information processing.
But this is the stage that determines all subsequent methods of work,
all subsequent results that we will achieve, that we will receive.
That is why we have devoted so much time to perception,
and, accordingly, I would like to focus on the most frequent aspects of this perception
and the formation of the impression that is obtained as a result.
Thank you for your attention.